Patron Loader is a perl program to bulk load and update patrons in Evergreen.

sample invocation: 

./patron_loader.pl --db evergreen --dbhost myserver -dbuser admin --dbpw demo123 --file sample.csv --org_unit INNS --date_format "MM/DD/YYYY" --default_password 4444 --alert_message "patron has left swim cap at desk"  --debug 1

Required parameters:

--db the Evergreen database
--dbuser the user of the Evergreen database
--dbhost the ip or domain name of the Evergreen database
--file path to the CSV file used as the data source
--org_unit the org unit name of the org unit patrons are being loaded for
    used to match mapped variables
`
Optional parameters:

--dbport Evergreen database port, defaults to 5432
--delimter defaults to a comma can be anyother delimiter usable by TEXT::CSV
--debug if set to anything other than 1 will assume you do not want to commit
    any database transactions and will print the SQL that would do so to STDOUT
--matchpoint defaults to 'usrname', can also be 'cardnumber'
--date_format used if dates are not in a 'YYYY-MM-DD' format
--ident_type availalbe as a field but rarely used in export sources so it can
    be specified from the command line
--default_password allows you to define a default password for accounts where one 
    is not defined in the file, be very careful, this option is dangerous as it 
    _will_ overwrite existing passwords 
    if some rows have a paasswd value and the default is used the default will only 
    be used where the column is null
--alert_mesage this is meanst for scenarios where the script is being used for bulk 
    loading students and an alert message is needed such as "verify address" 
    it only adds an alert and does not check for duplications 
    sending library will be set to the org unit used in the parameters 
--alert_title defaults to 'Needs Staff Attention', only appears when --alert_message 
    is defined
--profile if no profile is given in the file one can be specified by parameter,
    if a combination of parameter and in file is used the parameter will be used as 
    a fall back from the file 
--home_org if no library is provided in the file it can be overriden by this, like 
    similar settings if a column with library is present but null in a given row 
    this will be used instead; expects short org name 

Required Data:

Seven columns are considered required for loading the file, the cardnumber, usrname, 
passwd, profile, home_library, family_name and first_given_name.  With the home_org and  
profile parameters you can leave the columsn for profile and home_library empty but 
you still need the columns or you will get annoying uninitialized errors.  A password 
is also required but if not available in the file it will default to the usrname plus 
last four characters of the cardnumber.

Optional columns are: todo 

Not all data sources can customize the data in the CSV so some mapping is allowed. 
The patron_loader.header table allows for mapping incoming header names to ones that 
are natively expected.  For example if an incoming header says 'student_type' and is 
mapped to 'profile' it will be used as the profile column.  Additionally the profile 
and library columns are mappable on a datafield level.  For example if an Evergreen 
org unit's shortname is 'NEMS' but a student management system can only export 
'North Eastern Middle School' you can map those values in patron_loader.mapping using 
a mapping type of 'library'.  A mapping type of 'profile' is also available.  

As a convention the Evergreen database column names are mostly used for the actor.usr 
columns but it was found in testing that home_ou was very confusing so the label of 
'library' is used instead and internally adjusted to use 'home_ou'.  

The column ident_type is treated specially.  It is required by actor.usr and does not 
have a default but usually doesn't correspond to a exported value from others systems 
so it defaults to '3' or 'Other' but you can definite through an optional parameter.

Overview:

The script is very conservative checking for an existing cardnumber and usrname.  If
either is found on an account that differs from the one using the match point then it
will skip adding or updating that user.  The match point specified is considered
authoratative and it will update the matching account unless debug is on.

Currently only two set of address columns are supported add1_foo and add2_foo. The script 
assumes the addresses being added are authoratative mailing addresses, removes any existing 
mailing addresses, adds these and sets the user's mailing_address field to the one from the 
addr1_street1 field or addr2_street1 if there is no addr1_street1.  If only a partial address 
is given the entire address will be written so long as there is a street1.  Empty strings will 
be used for the other values.  If there is no address given then addresses will not be 
touched.  Part of the aggressiveness of removing non-specified addresses is to esnure 
identifying information for patrons is removed when updating, especially for the use case
of schools bulk updating juveniles.  



Database and Logging: 

The database holds a patron_loader.log table that logs (assuming it can create the db
connection) a log when loads, begin, finish some basic counts and why some rows are 
skipped.

TODOs:

* test date formats for validity

* various places could use testing for case sensitivity for quality of life 

* add statistical category support, there is some placeholder code for them currently
in the script

* add a --strict_mode that will only allow updates for home_ous in @valid_orgs 

* uninitialized values within %column_positions when using --home_ou and --profile 
without accompanying profiles so tweaking the column position requirements could be done

* create a function to insert a usr account without password where it would create the 
password on some configured value, say usrname + last four of cardnumber  

* shared addresses are a problem as are the same address used for mailing and billing 

* need to escape apostrophes in strings in sql_wrap_text 
